Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.


Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant


and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,


photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.



Log/C.R. No. 1010320
On October 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2007 in the 3rd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer (Officer A) and an on-duty
CPD officer (Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A was insubordinate
towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B; directed
profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in her
subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department due to
her overall conduct. It was alleged that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest and verbally abused Officer A.
Based upon statements by the accused members and witnesses, 911
recordings, medical records, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
insubordinate towards a superior; physically maltreated Officer B;
directed profanities at Officer B; committed a Battery which resulted in
her subsequent arrest; and brought discredit upon the Department
due to her overall conduct. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for allegations that Officer B physically maltreated
Officer A during the course of her arrest. IPRA recommended a finding
of “EXONERATED” for allegations that Officer B verbally abused
Officer A. IPRA recommended separation from the department for
Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1020924
On October 17, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding multiple
incidents that occurred between November 2005 and October 2008 in
the 1st District and East Chicago, Indiana. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pointed his firearm at
the complainant; threatened her; forced her to perform oral copulation
at gunpoint; took their sons from the complainant’s residence without
permission; left his District of assignment without proper
authorization; used his official position for personal gain; made false
reports by submitting time records claiming he worked during a
holiday for which he was not present for his entire tour of duty; and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
when she was pregnant. Based upon statements by the accused officer
and complainant, police and court records, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for allegations that the
officer pointed his firearm at complainant; threatened her; forced her
to perform oral copulation at gunpoint; and took their sons from the
complainant’s
residence
without
permission.
Further,
IPRA


recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the
officer used his official position for personal gain or influence and
verbally abused and battered the complainant about the abdomen
while she was pregnant. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that the officer left his District of assignment without
proper permission and made false reports by submitting time records
claiming he worked during a holiday for which he was not present for
his entire tour of duty. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1009954
On October 8, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
October 8, 2007 in the 16th District with subsequent incidents
continuing through April 2008. It was alleged that a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer used departmental resources to access
Complainant A’s personal information; used departmental resources to
access Complainant B’s personal information; verbally maltreated
Complainant B in October 2007 regarding her involvement with
Complainant A; verbally maltreated Complainant B while seated in
court during a pre-trial hearing on an unknown date; verbally
maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital in March 2008; verbally
maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding her statement at
IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008 regarding
an alleged accident involving Complainant B. Based upon statements
by the accused officer, complainant, witness, department reports, and
medical and CPD department records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer used departmental
resources to access Complainant A’s personal information; used
departmental resources to access Complainant B’s personal
information; verbally maltreated Complainant B in October 2007
regarding her involvement with Complainant A; verbally maltreated
Complainant B while seated in court during a pre-trial hearing on an
unknown date; verbally maltreated Complainant B while at a hospital
in March 2008; verbally maltreated Complainant B in April 2008
regarding her statement at IPRA; and verbally maltreated Complainant
B in April 2008 regarding an alleged accident involving Complainant B.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused
officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1013436
On January 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
took place on January 16, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an
unnecessary physical altercation; was intoxicated. Based upon
statements by the accused officer and witness, photographs, court
records, breathalyzer tests, and official reports, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer engaged
in an unnecessary physical altercation. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the officer was intoxicated. IPRA
recommended a seven (7) day suspension for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 311066
On February 7, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding multiple incidents that arose first on August 20,
2005 continuing through July 18, 2006 involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that on February 6, 2006, the
accused officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the
victim. It was alleged that on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours, the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new
unlisted address; shouted victim’s name outside her residence causing
a disturbance; verbally abused the victim; was intoxicated; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim; and left numerous
harassing telephone messages to the victim. It was alleged that on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours, the accused officer
arrived uninvited to her address; verbally abused the victim; grabbed
the telephone from the victim’s hand to prevent her from calling the
police; pushed the victim; struck the victim; choked the victim; and
was subsequently arrested. It was alleged that between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006, the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim and repeatedly told her over
the phone not to show up in court against him. It was alleged that on
February 26, 2006, the accused officer made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone and violated an Order of
Protection. It was alleged that on March 1, 2006, the accused officer
was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was alleged that
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006, the accused officer made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim and violated an
Order of Protection. It was alleged that on May 2, 2006, the accused
officer was arrested for violation of an Order of Protection. It was


alleged that between April 27 through May 5, 2006, the accused officer
sent numerous harassing e-mails to the victim and violated an Order
of Protection. It was alleged that on July 11, 2006, the accused officer
violated an Order of Protection. It was alleged that on July 18, 2006,
the accused officer was arrested for violation of Order of Protection. It
was alleged that on August 20, 2005, the accused officer threatened to
kill the victim. It was alleged that on August 24, 2005, the accused
officer made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to
the victim and her family members and left numerous harassing and
threatening telephone messages. It was alleged that on December
2005, the accused officer showed the victim a handgun that he (the
accused officer) said was untraceable and not registered. Based on
statements from the victim and witnesses, official reports, medical
reports, OEMC reports and transmissions, court records, phone
records, voicemail and electronic messages, drug test results and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused officer arrived uninvited to the victim’s new unlisted
address on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 7, 2006
at approximately 0300 hours; left numerous harassing telephone
messages to the victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300
hours; arrived uninvited to her address on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; grabbed the telephone from the victim’s
hand to prevent her from calling the police on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; pushed the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; struck the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; choked the victim on February 7, 2006 at
approximately 0700 hours; was subsequently arrested on February 7,
2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made numerous harassing
telephone calls to victim’s cellular phone on February 26, 2006;
violated an Order of Protection on February 26, 2006; was arrested for
violation of an Order of Protection on March 1, 2006; the accused
officer made numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between
April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; violated an Order of Protection
between April 19, 2006 and April 25, 2006; was arrested for violation
of an Order of Protection on May 2, 2006; sent numerous harassing emails to the victim between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection between April 27 through May 5, 2006; violated an
Order of Protection on July 11, 2006; and was arrested for violation of
Order of Protection on July 18, 2006. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer made numerous
harassing telephone calls to the victim on February 6, 2006; shouted
victim’s name outside her residence causing a disturbance on February


7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the victim on
February 7, 2006 at approximately 0300 hours; verbally abused the
victim on February 7, 2006 at approximately 0700 hours; made
numerous harassing telephone calls to the victim between February 9,
2006 through February 14, 2006; repeatedly told her over the phone
not to show up in court against him between February 9, 2006 through
February 14, 2006; threatened to kill the victim on August 20, 2005;
made numerous harassing and threatening telephone calls to the
victim and her family members on August 24, 2005; left numerous
harassing and threatening telephone messages on August 24, 2005;
and showed the victim a handgun that he (the accused officer) said
was untraceable and not registered on December 2005. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the
accused officer was intoxicated on February 7, 2006 at approximately
0300 hours. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department. During the course of this investigation, the
accused officer was discharged from the department as a result of a
different matter.



Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to


report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer


E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he


failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and


made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public


view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical


Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug


tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements


from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide


failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering



with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s


misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302


On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept


IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a


verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged


that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of


“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.



Log/C.R. No. 1045912
On June 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident occurred on June
5, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1005045
On April 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident occurred on April 18, 2007 in the
3rd District, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD officer (Officer B). It was
alleged that Officer A verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed
the victim; punched the victim; got on top of the victim and choked
him; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also
alleged that Officer B failed to provide his name and star number upon
request. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant
and witnesses, department reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
verbally abused the victim; grabbed and pushed the victim; punched
the victim; and got on top of the victim and choked him. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to provide his name and
star number upon request. IPRA recommended a written reprimand
for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that



Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT



SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”



the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that



Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.



Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.



IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.


Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and


written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer



agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial


slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”


for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.



Log/C.R. No. 1052698
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”


the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery


duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police


Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested


Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.



Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer


apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the


telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star


number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.



Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the


allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.



Log/C.R. No. 1051989
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in


violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to


report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.



Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department


reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit


upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.



