Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1047471
On August 5, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 5, 2011 in Lake Delton, Wisconsin. It was alleged that an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer was intoxicated; was in
possession of her weapon while intoxicated; was inattentive to duty, in
that she failed to maintain control of her weapon; threatened to shoot
her fiancé, the victim; pointed her weapon at the victim; engaged in a
physical altercation with the victim; discharged her weapon; was
arrested for Felony Endangering Safety, Disorderly Conduct, and
Endanger Safety/Use/Dangerous Weapon; failed to report her felony
arrest; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the department.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a forty-five (45) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1045406
On May 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred in
the spring of 2011 continuing through May 2011 in the 16th District. It
was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant violated an Order of Protection in that he contacted his five
children, Complainants A through E, multiple times via telephone and
text messaging on May 13, 2011; telephoned son Complainant A
multiple times on May 20, 2011; contacted his wife, Complainant F, on
May 20, 2011 via email and accessed her email account on May 23,
2011; harassed his wife, Complainant F, by stealing her car on May
12, 2011; threatened his wife, Complainant F, in Spring 2011;
harassed his wife, Complainant F, through electronic means in April
and May 2011; and struck his sons, Complainant B and C, on unknown
dates. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a three (3) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1048130
On September 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 1, 2011 in the 3rd District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant was inattentive to duty in that she accidentally
discharged her taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1033096
On January 12, 2010, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 12, 2010 in the 22nd District. It was alleged that
an off-duty Chicago Police Department Officer (CPD) was intoxicated
while off-duty; failed to secure his weapon; shot Victim A; assaulted
Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
brought discredit to on the department, in that he interfered with the
Chicago Fire Department (CFD) personnel who were attempting to
treat Victim A and was subsequently arrested for those actions; and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. Based on statements from the accused officer, victim and
witnesses, medical, expert, breathalyzer, and police reports, OEMC
records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer was intoxicated while off-duty;
failed to secure his weapon; assaulted Victim B, a CPD Sergeant;
verbally abused Victim B, a CPD Sergeant; and brought discredit to on
the department, in that he interfered with the Chicago Fire
Department personnel who were attempting to treat Victim A and was
subsequently arrested for those actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer shot Victim A and
provided false statements to investigating police officers and
detectives regarding this incident when he indicated that Victim A shot
himself. IPRA recommended a sixty (60) day suspension for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1046872
On July 12, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 12, 2011 in the 2nd District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 314738
On August 6, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 6, 2006 in
the 18th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police
Department Officer (CPD) punched victim about his face; detained
victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed a racial
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his duty
assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately secure
department property; failed to promptly report damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his contact with the victim;
make a false report regarding damage to department property; made
a false report regarding his activities; and by his overall actions
brought discredit on the department. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
OEMC records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused Officer punched victim about his face;
detained victim without justification; threatened to kill victim; directed
a racial slur at the victim; failed to properly restrain the victim; left his
duty assignment without proper authorization; failed to adequately
secure department property; failed to promptly report damage to
department property; made a false report regarding his contact with
the victim; make a false report regarding damage to department
property; made a false report regarding his activities; and by his
overall actions brought discredit on the department. IPRA
recommended separation for the accused Officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1044261
On March 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 25, 2011 in the 10th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his
taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1023942
On February 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 13, 2011 in the 18th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused
complainant; grabbed complainant by the collar and pushed him down
onto a Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) bus seat; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his use of
force during the arrest of the complainant. Based on statements from
the accused officer, victim and witnesses, medical and police reports,
CTA and OEMC records, and video, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the accused Officer verbally
abused complainant. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
for the allegation that the accused Officer grabbed complainant by the
collar and pushed him down onto a CTA bus seat. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer failed to
complete a TRR documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1029189
On August 14, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 3, 2009 in the 19th District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer verbally abused the victim;
choked the victim; and failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR) documenting his use of force during the arrest of the
complainant. Based on statements from the accused Officer, victim
and witnesses, police reports and medical records, IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused
Officer verbally abused the victim and choked the victim. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer
failed to complete a Tactical Response Report (TRR) documenting his
use of force during the arrest of the complainant. IPRA recommended
a “Violation Noted” for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1044788
On April 17, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 17, 2011 in the 12th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049273
On October 13, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 13, 2011 in the 14th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1052698
On March 17, 2012, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 17, 2012 in the 19th District, involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with an unknown
subject. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1029960
On September 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 9, 2009 in the 8th District, involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his weapon. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Written
Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1017706
On June 26, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 14th District, involving five on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through E). It was
alleged that accused Officers B and C failed to place Victim where he
could be monitored and supervised. It was also alleged that Officers
A, D, and E failed to process Victim in a timely manner and failed to
properly monitor Victim. Based on statements from the accused and
witnesses, medical records, photographs and video, and police
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer A violated departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed to place Victim A where
he could be monitored and supervised. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
follow guidelines for arrestee screening in that he failed to place Victim
where he could be monitored. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer D failed to process Victim A in a timely manner.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer D violated Departmental policy regarding monitoring arrestees
held in lockup facilities. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
the allegation that Officer E failed to process Victim A in a timely
manner. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that Officer E violated Departmental policy regarding
monitoring arrestees held in lockup facilities. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for Officer B, a one (1) day suspension
for Officer D, and a one (1) day suspension for Officer E.
Log/C.R. No. 1032601
On December 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on December 16, 2009 in the 7th District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It
was alleged that accused Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim; verbally
abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; submitted false
department reports regarding the arrest of the Victim; and provided a
false statement to IPRA on March 8, 2010, and September 13, 2011.
It was also alleged that accused Officer B held the Victim to the ground
by placing his foot on his back; submitted false department reports
regarding the arrest of the Victim; witnessed misconduct and failed to
report it; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. Based on statements from
from the complainant and witnesses, medical records, photographs
and video, 911 calls, and police records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A stomped/kicked the Victim;
verbally abused the Victim; struck the Victim on the face; made false
department reports regarding the Victim’s arrest; and provided a false
report to IPRA on April 8, 2010. Further, IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B physically maltreated the
Victim by placed his foot on the Victim’s back; made false reports
relative to the Victim’s arrest; witnessed and failed to report
misconduct; and provided false statements to IPRA on April 27, 2010,
June 4, 2010, and September 15, 2011. IPRA recommended
separation for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1014602
On March 2, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 2, 2008 in Forest Park, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department Officer directed profanities at Victim A;
caused a disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on
restaurant tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offCreated by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 6 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
AUGUST 2012
duty; failed to identify himself as a CPD Officer; struck Victim B, a
Forest Park Police Officer, on the face; grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park
Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled him to the ground; spat on
Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic; and directed
profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire Department Paramedic.
Based on statements from the accused Officer, victims and witnesses,
medical and ambulance reports, photographs, radio transmissions,
CPD, Forest Park Police, and Cook County Sheriff’s Department
records, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the accused Officer failed to identify himself as a CPD
Officer. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused Officer directed profanities at Victim A; caused a
disturbance by jumping around and landing on his back on restaurant
tables, causing them to break; was arrested, charged, and
subsequently indicted for the criminal offenses of Aggravated Battery
and Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer; was intoxicated while offduty; struck Victim B, a Forest Park Police Officer, on the face;
grabbed Victim C, a Forest Park Police Sergeant by his legs and tackled
him to the ground; spat on Victim D, a Forest Park Fire Department
Paramedic; and directed profanities at Victim E, a Forest Park Fire
Department Paramedic. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused Officer.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 7 of 7

