Abstracts of Sustained Cases
OCTOBER 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1013283
On January 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officers A and B stopped the Victim and searched his vehicle
without justification, locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys inside his
vehicle, failed to return or inventory his wallet, and failed to enforce
traffic violations. It was also alleged that Officer A pulled the Victim’s
hat over his eyes and punched the Victim on the face. It was alleged
that on August 10, 2012, Officers A and B gave false statements to
IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on January 10, 2008. Based
on statements from the accused, the victim, and witnesses, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer A stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the Victim’s hat over his eyes, punched the Victim on the face, failed
to enforce traffic violations, and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that Officer B stopped the Victim and searched him and his car without
justification. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegations that Officer A locked the Victim’s cell phone and keys
inside his vehicle and failed to return or inventory the Victim’s wallet.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B failed
to enforce traffic violations and made two false statements to IPRA.
IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A
and a ten (10) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1031088
On October 18, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 18, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer physically
maltreated Victim A by shoving her, and verbally abused Victim B by
directing a racial slur at him. Based on an admission by the accused,
statements from the victim and witnesses, and security camera
footage, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
Officer physically maltreated Victim A by shoving her. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer verbally
abused Victim B by directing a racial slur at him. The Officer
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
OCTOBER 2012
apologized to Victim B independent of the investigation.
recommended a five (5) day suspension for the Officer.

IPRA

Log/C.R. No. 1026207
On May 8, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 8, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officers A and B
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, failed to
inventory or return the Victim’s property, falsely imprisoned her,
unnecessarily detained her, failed to complete a contact card for her,
and failed to ensure that she was safe and secure. It was alleged that
Officer A refused to loosen the Victim’s handcuffs. It was also alleged
that Officer B failed to take action against Officer A, when Officer A
shoved the Victim. Based on statements from the accused Officers and
the victim, photographs and video footage, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A
handcuffed the Victim too tightly, shoved her against a car, refused to
loosen her handcuffs, and unnecessarily detained her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer A failed to inventory or return the Victim’s property and failed
to ensure the Victim’s safety. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that Officer B handcuffed the Victim too tight, shoved her
against a car, failed to inventory or return her property, falsely
imprisoned her, and failed to ensure her safety. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed
to take action against Officer A when he shoved the Victim and
unnecessarily detained her. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to complete a contact card for the
Victim. IPRA recommended a reprimand for Officer A and Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025040
On March 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2009, involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and two on-duty CPD Officers (Officer B and
Officer C). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward Sergeant Victim A in a threatening manner
and struck his hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order to
open the door, engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim B via the
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
OCTOBER 2012
telephone, and was intoxicated/under the influence of alcohol during
the incident. It was also alleged that Officer B and Officer C failed to
follow proper procedure, and took Officer A’s wallet and failed to
secure/return it to him. Based on statements from the accused, the
victim and witnesses, and police reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused Sergeant
Victim A, advanced toward him in a threatening manner and struck his
hand, refused to obey the Sergeant’s direct order, engaged in a verbal
altercation with Victim B via the telephone, and was intoxicated/under
the influence of alcohol during the incident. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B and
Officer C failed to follow proper procedure. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B and Officer
C took Officer A’s wallet and failed to secure/return it to him. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1018945
On August 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 9, 2008, involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton, stomped him
about the body, kicked him about the body, and violated his Fourth
Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. It was also alleged that the
Officer failed to properly document his encounter with the Victim.
Based on statements from the accused, the victim and witnesses,
photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Officer used excessive force in
striking the Victim about the body with a metal baton and failed to
properly document his encounter with the Victim. IPRA recommended
a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Officer
stomped and kicked the Victim about the body. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer violated
the Victim’s Fourth Amendment rights by falsely arresting him. IPRA
recommended a ninety (90) day suspension for the Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027703
On June 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 27, 2009, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A pushed
Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a metal object, verbally
abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim B his name and star
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
OCTOBER 2012
number upon her request, and used inappropriate language on the
radio. It was also alleged that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. Based on statements from the accused, the victims and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and police reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A pushed Victim A, hit him about the face and body with a
metal object, verbally abused Victims A and B, failed to provide Victim
B his name and radio number upon her request, and used
inappropriate language on the radio. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B used inappropriate language
on the radio. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for Officer
B.
Log/C.R. No. 1052493
On March 12, 2012, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 11, 2012, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the officer pushed the Victim and
pulled her hair. Based upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a suspension of twenty
(20) days.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 4

