Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1051989
On February 19, 2012, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2012 in the 5th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer discharged her weapon in the air. Based upon a
mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” and a suspension of two (2) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1045076
On May 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District, involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer on May 1, 2011 in the 25th District removed Victim A
from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave instructions to Victims A
through D to show themselves and one of the Victims remained out of
view; stated that he would damage Victims A through D’s residences;
handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that he would push Victims A
through D through the wall; pushed Victims A through D against the
garaged and to the ground. It was also alleged that later that day, the
accused Officer yelled at Victims A through D and verbally abused
Victim B. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to
accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that he
removed Victim A from his bike; pointed his gun as he gave
instructions to Victims A through D to show themselves and one of the
Victims remained out of view; stated that he would damage Victims A
through D’s residences; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; stated that
he would push Victims A through D through the wall; yelled at Victims
A through D; and verbally abused Victim B. The Officer agreed though
mediation to accept a suspension of five (5) days.
Log/C.R. No. 1014796
On March 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 9, 2008 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer (Complainant Officer A), two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officers B and C), one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant D),
one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant E), and one on-duty CPD
Deputy Chief (Deputy Chief F). It was alleged that Complainant Officer
A was intoxicated while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to
maintain control of his weapon; threatened improper government
action; carried his firearm while consuming alcoholic beverages in
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 6

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
violation of a General Order; and brought discredit upon the
Department by creating a disturbance by attempting to kick in a door.
It was alleged that Officer B called Complainant Officer A and
Complainants B and C a racial epithet; physically abused Complainant
Officer A; discriminated against Complainant Officer A based on his
racial status; falsely arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report
misconduct; and subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. It
was alleged that Officer C failed to prevent misconduct; physically
abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested Complainant
Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of Complainant
Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently provided a
false statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant D, Lieutenant E
and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against Complainant
Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false reports regarding
the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to report misconduct.
Based upon statements from the accused, complainants and
witnesses, ET photographs, Department, OEMC, medical and
alcohol/drug reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Complainant Officer A was intoxicated
while off-duty; resisted a lawful arrest; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; threatened improper government action; carried his firearm
while consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of a General Order;
and brought discredit upon the Department by creating a disturbance
by attempting to kick in a door. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the accused Officer B called
Complainant Officer A and Complainants B and C a racial epithet;
physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely arrested
Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the arrest of
Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and subsequently
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Officer C failed to prevent
misconduct; physically abused Complainant Officer A; discriminated
against Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; falsely
arrested Complainant Officer A; submitted false reports regarding the
arrest of Complainant Officer A; failed to report misconduct; and
subsequently provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended
a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that Sergeant D,
Lieutenant E and Deputy Chief F individually discriminated against
Complainant Officer A based on his racial status; submitted false
reports regarding the arrest of Complainant Officer A; and failed to
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 6

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
report misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty
suspension for the accused Complaint Officer A.

(30)

day

Log/C.R. No. 1043164
On February 7, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 7, 2011 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer was inattentive to duty in that he discharged his weapon twice.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052912
On March 28, 2012, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 28, 2012 in the 15th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1043770
On March 6, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding two incidents that both
occurred on March 6, 2011 in the 16th District, involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer verbally abused his minor son, the Victim, and struck
his minor son, the Victim, on the mouth. It was also alleged that later
that day the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son, the
Victim, inside a vehicle. Based upon statements by the accused, the
victim and witnesses, ET photos, 911 recordings, DCFS investigation
finding, department and medical reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused Officer verbally abused his
minor son, the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the accused Officer struck his minor son, the Victim, on
the mouth. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for
allegation that the accused Officer grabbed and pushed his minor son,
the Victim, inside a vehicle. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for the accused Officer.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 6

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1033369
On January 6, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between January 6, 2010 through January 20, 2010 in the 5th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officer A and Complainant Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A
harassed Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text
messages after he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally
abused Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory
names at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through
January 20, 2010. Based upon statements from Officer A and
Complainant Officer B, department reports, and text messages, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A harassed
Complainant Officer B by sending him numerous text messages after
he informed her to cease contact with him and verbally abused
Complainant Officer B by directing profanities and derogatory names
at him via text message between January 6, 2010 through January 20,
2010. IPRA recommended a reprimand for the accused member.
Log/C.R. No. 1036894
On June 4, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that occurred
between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010 in the 4th District
involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was
alleged that between April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010, the accused
Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling Complainant
and/or sending the Complainant text messages. Based upon
statements from the accused, the Complainant, and witnesses,
department and court reports and documents, text messages and
phone records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer violated an active Order of Protection by calling
Complainant and/or sending the Complainant text messages between
April 4, 2009 through June 9, 2010. IPRA recommended a three (3)
day suspension for the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1045794
On May 31, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 29, 2011 in Hazel Crest, Illinois involving an off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused
Officer engaged in a public verbal altercation with the Complainant and
kicked the Complainant’s vehicle. Based upon statements from the
accused, the Complainant, CPD and Hazel Crest Police Department
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 6

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused Officer engaged in a public verbal
altercation with the Complainant and kicked the Complainant’s vehicle.
IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for the accused
Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1035710
On April 23, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 23, 2010 in the 2nd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A though C). It was alleged that
Officer A struck the Victim on the chest; struck the Victim on the leg;
choked the Victim; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
(TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge the Victim. It was
also alleged that Officer B failed to report misconduct. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon
statements by the accused, the victim and witnesses, photographs,
and department reports, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B failed to report misconduct. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to register Victim’s complaint. Based upon a mediation, the Officer A
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations
that he struck the Victim on the leg; failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report (TRR); and failed to arrest and appropriately charge
the Victim. The Officer agreed though mediation to accept a
suspension of one (1) day.
Log/C.R. No. 1028778
On August 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 1, 2009 in the 19th District involving one on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A). It was alleged that Officer
A pursued and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her
throughout the emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be
administered to a DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant
Nurse if the DUI kit was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled
Complainant Nurse’s arms behind her back and handcuffed her too
tightly; unnecessarily detained Complainant Nurse; directed profanities
at Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from custody
without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field Contact Card
regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to properly
secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant Nurse
without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought discredit
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 6

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
DECEMBER 2012
upon the Department. It was alleged that Sergeant B allowed Officer A
to release Complainant Nurse from custody without proper
authorization. Based upon statements from the accused Officer and
Sergeant, the Complainant Nurse, witnesses, OEMC and medical
records, CPD, Chicago Fire Department and medical ambulance service
reports, ET photographs, surveillance video and still photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A pursued
and harassed Complainant Nurse by following her throughout the
emergency room and demanding that a DUI kit be administered to a
DUI arrestee; threatened to arrest Complainant Nurse if the DUI kit
was not administered to the DUI arrestee; pulled Complainant Nurse’s
arms behind her back and handcuffed her too tightly; unnecessarily
detained Complainant Nurse; released Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization; failed to complete a Field
Contact Card regarding his contact with Complainant Nurse; failed to
properly secure and handcuff the DUI arrestee; arrested Complainant
Nurse without probable cause; and by his overall actions brought
discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A directed profanities at
Complainant Nurse. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Sergeant B allowed Officer A to release Complainant Nurse from
custody without proper authorization. IPRA recommended a one
hundred and twenty (120) day suspension for Officer A and a
fifteen (15) day suspension for Sergeant B.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 6 of 6

