Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1037959
On July 11, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 11, 2010 in the 18th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that both Officer A and B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody; failed to properly secure the subject while in their
custody; failed to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in
their custody; failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was
in need of immediate medical attention; failed to properly notify a
supervisor of a sick person, the subject, in their custody; failed to
treat the subject with respect and dignity; and made a false statement
to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers and witnesses,
department reports, audio recordings, and video recordings, IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegations that
Officer A and Officer B failed to properly search the subject while in
their custody and, based on the absence of a governing CPD policy,
that Officer A and Officer B failed to properly notify a supervisor of a
sick person, the subject, in their custody. IPRA recommended a finding
of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A and Officer B failed
to properly monitor the safety of the subject, while in their custody.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and
Officer B failed to properly secure the subject while in their custody;
failed to provide medical care for the subject, who was in need of
immediate medical attention; failed to treat the subject with respect
and dignity; and during its investigation, made a false statement to
IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officers from
the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1024576
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 7th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged
that Officer A and Officer B entered the residence of the victim without
legal justification; seized victim without justification; threatened victim
with injury and/or death; failed to secure their firearms; delayed
summoning medical assistance for the victim; and that Officer B fired
his firearm without justification. Based on statements from the
accused officers and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A and Officer
B entered the residence of the victim without legal justification and
seized victim without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
the allegation that Officer A failed to secure his firearm. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A and Officer B threatened victim with injury and/or death and
delayed summoning medical assistance for the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B fired his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended a
seventeen (17) day suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15)
day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1050750
On December 18, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on December 18, 2011 in the 13th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant and victim Lieutenant.
It was alleged that the accused Sergeant verbally and physically
mistreated victim Lieutenant. Based on a mediation, the accused
Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegation and subsequently retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017716
On June 27, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 26, 2008 in the 9th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
physically maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken
into custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and
violated the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim
via text message. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim, and witnesses, reports and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer physically
maltreated the victim during a domestic dispute; was taken into
custody and placed under arrest for Domestic Battery; and violated
the conditions of his bail bond when he contacted the victim via text
message. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1051707
On February 6, 2012, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
February 6, 2012 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
failed to properly secure his weapon and unnecessarily discharged his
weapon. Based on a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed to accept
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation and subsequently
retired from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1017110
On June 4, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 4, 2008 in the 14th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the accused Sergeant
directed profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; failed to
provide complainant with his name and/or badge number; and brought
discredit on the department by his overall actions. Based on
statements from the accused officer, complainant, and witnesses,
department reports, and OEMC transmissions, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer directed
profanities at complainant; pushed complainant; and brought discredit
on the department by his overall actions. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer failed to provide
complainant with his name and/or badge number. IPRA recommended
a twenty (20) day suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1014617
On March 3, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 3, 2008 in the 18th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the complainant and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on statements from the accused
officer, complainant, and witnesses, department and medical reports,
video recordings, photographs, and a breathalyzer test, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer engaged in a
physical altercation with the complainant. IPRA recommended a two
(2) day suspension for the accused officer. The accused officer
resigned prior to the completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1001556
On November 25, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
November 25, 2006 in Merrionette Park, IL involving two off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Victim Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
verbal altercation with Victim Officer B; engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Victim Officer B; punched Victim Officer B
about the face; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was
alleged that Victim Officer B was intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A; engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation with Officer A; and “head-butted” Officer A. Based on
statements from the accused members and witnesses, police and
medical reports, breathalyzer tests, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A was
intoxicated off-duty; engaged in a verbal altercation with Victim Officer
B; was arrested and charged with Battery; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A engaged in an
unjustified physical altercation with Victim Officer B and punched
Victim Officer B about the face. IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Victim Officer B was intoxicated offduty; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Officer A; and
“head-butted” Officer A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Victim Officer B engaged in a
verbal altercation with Officer A. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1003207
On February 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on February 2, 2007 in
the 3rd District involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was alleged that Officer A struck
victim on the back of the head; punched victim on the mouth; verbally
abused victim; and provided a false statement to IPRA. It was alleged
that Officer B observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to
report the misconduct. Based on statements from the accused
members, victim and witnesses, reports, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched
victim on the mouth and provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
struck victim on the back of the head and verbally abused victim. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B
observed Officer A engage in misconduct and failed to report the
misconduct. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
Officer A.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1034720
On March 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 16, 2010 in the 10th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and Officer B). It was
alleged that both Officer A and Officer B conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; admitted to past use of
racially-biased language; were verbally abusive towards Complainant A
and Complainant B; threatened Complainant A and Complainant B;
made coercive statements to Complainant A; made a coercive
statement to Complainant B; made a false department report; and
observed misconduct and failed to take action. Based on statements
from the accused members and complainants, department records,
and a cell phone audio recording IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A conducted an unjustified
traffic stop of the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a false
department report; and observed misconduct and failed to take action.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; made coercive
statements to Complainant A; and made a coercive statement to
Complainant B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that Officer B admitted to past use of racially-biased language; was
verbally abusive towards Complainant A and Complainant B;
threatened Complainant A and Complainant B; and made coercive
statements to Complainant A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B conducted an unjustified traffic stop of
the vehicle Complainant A drove; made a coercive statement to
Complainant B; and made a false department report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action. IPRA
recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1006000
On May 24, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 24, 2007 in
the 25th District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B). It
was alleged that on May 24, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; threatened the
victim; and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was also alleged
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
that on May 29, 2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department
when he was arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. It was
alleged that on November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. It was alleged that on
May 24, 2007, Officer B verbally abused the victim. Based on
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
department and medical reports, court records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007,
Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. Further,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 29,
2007, Officer A brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested and charged with Domestic Battery. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations on May 24, 2007, Officer A verbally
abused the victim; threatened the victim; and unnecessarily displayed
his weapon. Further, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations on that November 19, 2005, Officer A verbally abused the
victim and unnecessarily displayed his weapon. IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on May 24, 2007, Officer B
verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1007584
On July 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on July 16, 2007 in
the 5th District involving a Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It
was alleged that on July 16, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim; verbally abused the victim; had victim’s
cell phone service disconnected; and was intoxicated. It was alleged
that on July 11, 2007, Officer A engaged in a physical altercation with
the victim. It was alleged that on December 17, 2006, Officer A
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. It was alleged that
between October 2006 and July 2007, Officer A pointed a gun at the
victim and threatened to kill her; threatened to have victim’s children
taken away from her; and threatened to have victim’s family members
arrested. It was alleged on an unspecified date, Officer A obtained a
copy of victim’s criminal history. Based on statements from the
accused officer, victim and witnesses, department and medical
records, cell phone data, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused officer
engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer verbally abused the victim. IPRA recommended a finding of
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 6 of 7

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
April 2012
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that on July 16, 2007, the accused
officer had victim’s cell phone service disconnected. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
July 16, 2007, the accused officer was intoxicated. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that on July 11, 2007, the accused
officer engaged in a physical altercation with the victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that on
December 17, 2007, the accused officer engaged in a physical
altercation with the victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that between October 2006 and July 2007, the accused
officer pointed a gun at the victim and threatened to kill her and
threatened to have victim’s children taken away from her. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that between
October 2006 and July 2007, the accused officer threatened to have
victim’s family members arrested. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that on an unspecified date, the accused officer obtained
a copy of victim’s criminal history. IPRA recommended separation for
the accused officer from the department.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 7 of 7

