Abstracts of Sustained Cases
June 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1004549
On March 31, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on March 31, 2007 in
Cicero, Illinois. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. Based on statements from the accused officer,
victim and witnesses, photographs, 911 records, department and
medical reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that the accused officer struck the victim on the face and verbally
abused the victim. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension
for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1027491
On June 19 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 19, 2009, in the 2nd District, involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A; grabbed Victim A by the
throat; damaged Victim A’s personal property; and failed to complete
a Contact Information Card for Victim B. It was further alleged that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Based on statements from the accused officers, witnesses and victims,
and department records, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A directed racial slurs at Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A grabbed
Victim A by the throat. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer A damaged the personal property of Victim A.
Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer
A failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
Additionally, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer B failed to complete a Contact Information Card for Victim B.
IPRA recommended a fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer A
and a one (1) day suspension for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1024366
On March 4, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
February 28, 2009, in the 20th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and one onduty CPD sergeant (Sergeant). It was alleged that Officers A and B
failed to return or inventory the Victim’s property. It was alleged that

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
June 2012
Officer C handcuffed the victim too tightly. Additionally, it was alleged
that the Sergeant was inattentive to duty in failing to take action to
ensure a Case Report was generated regarding the Victim’s property.
Based on statements from the accused officers, victim and witness,
and department and medical records, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. IPRA further recommended a finding
of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B failed to return or
inventory the Victim’s property. Additionally, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer C
handcuffed the Victim too tightly. Further, IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Sergeant was
inattentive to duty. IPRA recommended written reprimands for
Officer A and Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1025858
On April 27, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 26, 2009, in the 7th District, involving three on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) officers (Officers A, B, and C) and two onduty CPD sergeants (Sergeants A and B). It was alleged that Officer A
struck the Victim with a police vehicle; threatened to fight with
Bystander A; made false reports; and failed to follow Department
policy regarding traffic crashes. Further, it was alleged that Officer B
pushed the Victim; directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened
Bystander B. Additionally, it was alleged that Officer C made an
incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. It was alleged that Sergeant A
failed to follow Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities
and procedures. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures;
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. Based on statements from
the accused officers, victims, and witnesses, departmental and medical
records, and admissions by Officers A, C, and Sergeant A, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
Officer A struck the Victim with a police vehicle. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A
threatened to fight with Bystander A. Additionally, IPRA recommended
a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer A made false
reports. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that Officer A failed to follow Department policy
regarding traffic crashes. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
June 2012
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B pushed the victim;
directed profanities at Bystander B; and threatened Bystander B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Officer C made an incomplete Illinois Traffic Crash Report. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
Sergeant A failed to follow department policy regarding initiation
responsibilities and procedures. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Sergeant B failed to follow
Department policy regarding initiation responsibilities and procedures
and failed to follow Department policy regarding investigation of traffic
crashes involving Department members. IPRA recommended a sixty
(60) day suspension for Officer A, a one (1) day suspension for
Officer C, and a five (5) day suspension for Sergeant A.
Log/C.R. No. 1025382
On April 9, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 9, 2009 in the 6th District, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
unintentionally discharged his firearm and was in possession of a
firearm with which he had not qualified. Based on the statements from
the accused officer and witness, and department records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer
discharged his firearm without justification. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that the accused officer was in possession
of a firearm, with which he had not qualified. IPRA recommended a
five (5) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1028765
On July 31 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 31, 2009, in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
approached Victim A in an aggressive manner and banged on the front
door of the house; yelled at Victim A and Victim B; violated a court
order; and brought discredit to the department. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, witness and victims, department
records, and Court Order, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer approached Victim A in an
aggressive manner and banged on the front door of the house. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
yelled at Victim A and Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
June 2012
the allegations that the accused officer violated a Cook County Court
Order by approaching the residence. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer brought discredit
upon the department by engaging in an unjustified verbal altercation
with Victim A and Victim B and by violating a Court Order. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1020562
On October 5, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 5, 2008 in the 4th District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck Victim B on the head
with his firearm; fired a gun at the victims; kicked Victim A about his
body; and made a false statement to IPRA on 25 February 2011.
Further, it was alleged that the accused officer brought discredit upon
the department by engaging in the above actions. Based on the
statements from the accused officer, victims and witnesses,
department reports, medical records, photographs, and video
evidence, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer repeatedly struck Victim A about his body; struck
Victim B on the head with a gun; fired a gun at Victim A and Victim B;
kicked Victim A about his body; provided a false statement to IPRA on
February 25, 2011; and brought discredit to the department. IPRA
recommended separation of the accused officer from the
department.
Log/C.R. No. 1023183
On January 17, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 16, 2009, in the 3rd District, involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officers (Officer A and Officer
B). It was alleged that Officer A kicked the victim on the nose; choked
the victim during an interview; and failed to complete a Tactical
Response Report. It was further alleged that Officer B held the victim’s
head in the snow for approximately one minute. Based on the
statements from the accused officers, victim and witnesses,
departmental, police, and medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked the victim in the face and choked the victim during an
interview. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
June 2012
Officer A failed to complete a Tactical Response Report. Further IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer B held
the victim’s head in the snow. IPRA recommended a two (2) day
suspension for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1015527
On April 6, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 6, 2008, in the 21st District, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer. It was alleged that the accused officer
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D;
struck Victim B on the head with his firearm; was intoxicated while offduty; and was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to the
consumption of alcoholic beverages. Based on the statements from the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, and
breathalyzer test, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on April 6, 2008, the accused officer unjustifiably
pointed his firearm at Victim A, Victim B, Victim C, and Victim D; and
that the accused officer struck Victim B on the head with his firearm.
IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the accused officer was intoxicated while off duty; and that the
accused officer was in possession of his firearm while impaired due to
the consumption of alcoholic beverages. IPRA recommended an eight
(8) day suspension for the accused member.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 5

