Abstracts of Sustained Cases
NOVEMBER 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1021573
On November 9, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 9, 2008, involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Captain and Sergeant. It was alleged that the
Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to identify himself; used
excessive force in that he pepper-sprayed the Sergeant; and failed to
complete a Tactical Response Report. It was also alleged that the
Sergeant was intoxicated while off-duty; was insubordinate to the
Captain; directed profanities at the Captain; grabbed the Captain
without justification; failed to identify himself; and released his dog at
the Captain. Based on statements from the accused and witnesses,
OEMC transmissions, department reports, and drug and alcohol
results, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegations that the Captain was intoxicated while off-duty; failed to
identify
himself;
and
pepper-sprayed
the
Sergeant.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Captain did not
complete a Tactical Response Report. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the Sergeant was intoxicated
while off-duty and failed to identify himself. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the Sergeant
was insubordinate to the Captain and released his dog at the Captain.
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the Sergeant
directed profanities at the Captain and grabbed the Captain without
justification. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
Captain and a three (3) day suspension for the Sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1010082
On October 12, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 12, 2007, involving one known on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and several unknown CPD
Officers. It was alleged that Officer A was inattentive to duty in that a
prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his custody; pushed the Victim
to the ground without justification; punched the Victim; and stepped
on the Victim’s neck. It was also alleged that the unknown Officers
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. Based on statements from the accused, the Victim and
witnesses, photographs, medical records, and department reports,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A was
inattentive to duty in that a prisoner, the Victim, escaped while in his
custody. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 2

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
NOVEMBER 2012
allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim to the ground without
justification; punched the Victim; and stepped on the Victim’s neck.
IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations
pushed the Victim to the ground without justification; choked the
Victim; and struck the Victim about the body several times with their
fists. IPRA recommended a two (2) day suspension for Officer A.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 2

