Abstracts of Sustained Cases
SEPTEMBER 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1031207
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 21, 2009, involving one on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer,
Officer A, slapped Victim CPD Officer B across the face in the women’s
locker room and head-butted her. It was alleged that Officer A placed
her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to kill Victim Officer
B. It was also alleged that on April 19, 2011, Officer A gave a false
statement to IPRA regarding the incident that occurred on October 21,
2009. Based on statements from the accused, the victim and
witnesses, police reports, and medical records, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A slapped Victim CPD Officer B
across the face in the women’s locker room. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A head-butted Victim CPD
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that
Officer A placed her hand on her weapon and verbally threatened to
kill Victim CPD Officer B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer A gave a false statement to IPRA on April
19, 2011, regarding the incident that occurred on October 21, 2009.
IPRA recommended separation for Officer A.
Log/C.R. No. 1029410
On August 21, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
August 21, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer punched the
Victim in the face and verbally abused him. It was also alleged that on
January 22, 2010, the Officer gave a false report to IPRA stating that
he did not punch the Victim. Based on statements made by the
accused, the victim and a witness, arrest reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for
the allegation that the Officer punched the Victim in the face. IPRA
also recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that the Officer
verbally abused the Victim. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that the Officer submitted a false
report to IPRA. IPRA recommended a written reprimand for the
accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1010477
Between October 26, 2007 and December 17, 2007, three complaints
were registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA),
regarding three separate incidents involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 3

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
SEPTEMBER 2012
Department (CPD) Officer and his girlfriend, the Victim. It was alleged
that, on October 26, 2007, the Officer pushed the Victim against a
wall, choked and scratched her, verbally abused her, threatened her,
and physically maltreated her by pouring drinks on her head and
taking her purse from her. It was also alleged that, on December 3,
2007, the Officer slapped the Victim on the face, threatened to kill her,
and verbally abused her. It was alleged that, on December 17, 2007,
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. Based on statements made by the accused,
the victim and a witness, photographs and case reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer pushed the Victim against a wall, and choked and scratched
her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the
allegation that the Officer verbally abused the Victim. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer threatened the Victim. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that the Officer physically maltreated the Victim by
pouring drinks on her head and taking her purse from her, since the
Officer admitted to those acts. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the Officer slapped the Victim. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer
threatened to kill the Victim and verbally abused her. IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that
the Officer attempted to grab the Victim during a verbal altercation,
and verbally abused her. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegation that the Officer verbally abused the
Victim. IPRA recommended a suspension of fifteen (15) days for
the accused Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1025477
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 12, 2009, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer and other unknown CPD Officers. It was
alleged that the unknown Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely
arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and
improperly searched Victim C. It was alleged that the known Officer
falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested Victim B, slammed Victim C
against a squad car, and improperly searched Victim C. It was also
alleged that the known Officer discharged his taser without
justification. Because the complainant did not give a sworn affidavit,
IPRA recommended a finding of “NO AFFIDAVIT” for the allegations
that the accused Officers falsely arrested Victim A, falsely arrested
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 3

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
SEPTEMBER 2012
Victim B, slammed Victim C against a squad car, and improperly
searched Victim C. However, based on statements made by the
accused and witnesses, arrest reports, tactical response reports, and
communication records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that the known Officer discharged his taser accidentally.
IPRA recommended a “Violation Noted” for the known Officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1032554
On October 25, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2009, involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer
punched his ex-wife, the Victim, struck her multiple times with a chair,
choked her, pushed her to the floor multiple times, pulled her by the
hair, and grabbed her arm, threatened to kill the Victim and her son,
and failed to notify the Department that he was the respondent to an
Order of Protection granted on February 5, 2010. Based upon a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a suspension of ten (10)
days.
Log/C.R. No. 1035288
On April 9, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 8, 2010, involving one known on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer and one unknown CPD Officer. It was alleged that the
unknown Officer maced students from a high school without
justification. It was alleged that the known Officer failed to register a
complaint on behalf of the high school students who stated that they
were maced without justification by the unknown CPD Officer. It was
also alleged that the known Officer failed to complete any department
reports after being notified by the students that they incurred injuries
that required medical attention. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for the allegations that the unknown officer maced the
students without justification. Based upon a mediation, the known
Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all
allegations and a suspension of one (1) day.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 3

