Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JULY 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1008540
On August 18, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 18, 2007 in
the 23rd District involving three on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officers (Officers A, B, and C). It was alleged that Officer A
pulled the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face
and neck; verbally abused the victim; and provided a false statement
to IPRA. It was alleged that Officers B and C observed misconduct and
failed to take action and both individually provided a false statement to
IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers, complainant,
and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and photographs,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A pulled
the victim’s hood over his head and punched him on his face and neck;
verbally abused the victim; and both individually provided a false
statement to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainant, and witnesses, department reports, medical records, and
photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officers B and C observed misconduct and failed to take action and
provided a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a forty-five
(45) day suspension for Officer A and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Officers B and C.
Log/C.R. No. 1008640
On August 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a The Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on August 22, 2007 in
the 14th District involving one on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Lieutenant (Lieutenant A) and two on-duty CPD Officers
(Officers B and C). It was alleged that Lieutenant A improperly
executed a search warrant and verbally abused the complainant. It
was alleged that Officers B and C discharged their weapons and
destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification. Based on
statements from the accused members, complainant and witnesses,
photographs and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Lieutenant A improperly executed a
search warrant. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Lieutenant A verbally abused the complainant. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, photographs
and department reports, IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officers B and C discharged
their weapons and destroyed complainant’s dogs without justification.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JULY 2012
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for the accused
Lieutenant.
Log/C.R. No. 1009860
On October 4, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
October 4, 2007 in the 9th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that
Officer A verbally abused Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed
Complainant A and pushed him against a car; and by his overall
actions brought discredit on the department. It was alleged that
Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action; verbally
abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought discredit on
the department. Based on statements from the accused officers,
complainants, and department reports, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer A verbally abused
Complainants A, B, and C; grabbed Complainant A and pushed him
against a car; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
the accused Officer B observed misconduct and failed to take action;
verbally abused Complainant A; and by his overall actions brought
discredit on the department. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day
suspension for Officer A and a fifteen (15) day suspension for
Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1022800
On January 1, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 1, 2009 in the 25th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer bit
Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg; kicked
Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of Victim
Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused Victim
Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. Based on statements from the accused officer, victims
and witnesses, department reports, and medical records, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused Officer
bit Victim Sergeant on the leg; kicked Victim Officer A on the leg;
kicked Victim Paramedic A on the arm; spat on the back of the head of
Victim Paramedic B; verbally abused Victim Sergeant; verbally abused
Victim Officer B; and by her overall actions brought discredit on the
department. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused Officer.
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JULY 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1031216
On October 22, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents
occurring in the 8th and 22nd Districts, on various dates, involving an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that
on October 22, 2009, that the accused Officer threatened complainant
via telephone. It was further alleged that from August 5, 2009 through
October 2009, that the accused Officer harassed complainant via
several phone calls. It was later alleged that on an undetermined date
and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer put a
pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant daughter
on two separate occasions. It was alleged that on December 2, 2009,
that the accused Officer made a false report to the Department. It was
alleged that on December 15, 2009, that the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. It was further
alleged that on June 17, 2010, that the accused Officer made a false
report to IPRA. Based on statements from the accused officer,
complainant, and witnesses, DCFS and police reports, OEMC,
telephone, medical and court records, IPRA recommended to “NOT
SUSTAIN” the allegation that on October 22, 2009, the accused
Officer threatened complainant via telephone. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on August 5,
2009 through October 2009, the accused Officer harassed complainant
via several phone calls. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that on December 15, 2009, the accused Officer provided
false information in a Petition for Order of Protection. Further, IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that on June 17,
2010, the accused Officer made a false report to IPRA.
IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that on an undetermined
date and time on or about April and/or May 2009, the accused Officer
put a pillow over her infant daughter’s face and shook her infant
daughter on two separate occasions. IPRA recommended separation
for the accused Officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1031396
On October 29, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 29, 2009 in the 16th District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was intoxicated while off duty, made a false statement
to a superior officer, engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the department, failed to follow procedure after the discharge of his
firearm in that the officer did not make the appropriate oral and
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JULY 2012
written reports after he discharged his firearm, disobeyed a
department directive regarding firearm discharge, unlawfully and
unnecessarily used his firearm, and subsequently pled guilty to the
charges of Reckless Conduct and Discharge of Firearm in City Limits.
Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044943
On April 24, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 24, 2011 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045412
On May 14, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 14, 2011 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049571
On October 25, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2011 in the 22nd District involving an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that the
accused Sergeant failed to properly secure his weapon and verbally
threatened Complainants A and B. Based upon a mediation, the
accused Sergeant agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED”
and a “Reprimand”.
Log/C.R. No. 1049626
On October 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 27, 2011 in the 3rd District involving an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 5

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JULY 2012
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050191
On November 21, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 21, 2011 in the 16th District involving an onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused Officer was inattentive to duty in that he accidentally
discharged his taser. Based upon a mediation, the accused Officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation
Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1050398
On December 1, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding incidents that
occurred on December 1, 2011 and December 4, 2011 in the 19th
District involving an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Sergeant. On December 1, 2011, it was alleged that the accused
Sergeant threatened the complainant (his brother) via text message,
threatened the complainant via voicemail, verbally abused the
complainant via voicemail, and was intoxicated. On December 4, 2011,
it was alleged that the accused Sergeant threatened complainant via
text message. Based upon a mediation, the accused Sergeant agreed
to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1052479
On March 10, 2012, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2012 in the 5th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused Officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused Officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 5

