Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1002011
On December 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
December 15, 2006 in the 12th District involving a Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and six off-duty Officers
(Officer B through F). It was alleged that Sergeant A and Officer C
physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper
verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to report information
concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow
member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through D from obtaining
police assistance; failed to complete a Tactical Response Report
regarding the incident; and engaged in conduct which brought
discredit upon the Department. It was alleged that Officer B physically
maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an improper verbal
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming alcohol in
violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his weapon;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department. It was also
alleged that Officer D and F physically maltreated Victims A through D;
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. It was also alleged that
Officer E engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation;
was in possession of a firearm that was not registered to him in
violation of a General Order; failed to report information concerning a
crime or other unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct; unnecessarily displayed a weapon; failed to complete a
Tactical Response Report regarding this incident; and engaged in
conduct which brought discredit on the Department. It was alleged
that Officer G failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA’s investigation consisted of statements from the accused
members, complainants and witnesses, video recordings, photographs,
medical records, 911 calls, and departmental records. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
both Sergeant G and Officer C failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding the incident. Further, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that both Sergeant G and Officer C
engaged in an improper verbal and/or physical altercation; failed to
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; failed
to report a fellow member’s misconduct; prevented Victims A through
D from obtaining police assistance; and engaged in conduct which
brought discredit upon the Department. IPRA also recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Sergeant G physically maltreated
Victims A through C. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation
that Officer C physically maltreated Victim D. IPRA recommended a
finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegation that Officer B
physically maltreated Victims A through D. IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B engaged in an improper
verbal altercation; was in possession of a firearm while consuming
alcohol in violation of a General Order; failed to maintain control of his
weapon; failed to report information concerning a crime or other
unlawful actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and
engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department.
IPRA recommended a finding of “CLOSED-HOLD” for all allegations
against Officer D because he resigned and did not address the
allegations against him. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer E unnecessarily
displayed a weapon. IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED”
for the allegation that Officer E failed to complete a Tactical Response
Report regarding this incident. IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer E engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; was in possession of a
firearm that was not registered to him in violation of a General Order;
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions; failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct; and engaged
in conduct which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that
Officer F physically maltreated Victims A through D; engaged in an
improper verbal and/or physical altercation; and engaged in conduct
which brought discredit on the Department. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer F failed to
report information concerning a crime or other unlawful actions; and
failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer G engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer G
failed to report information concerning a crime or other unlawful
actions and failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct. IPRA
recommended a forty-five (45) day suspension for Sergeant A,
thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, twenty-five (25) day
suspension for Officer C, thirty (30) day suspension for Officer
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
E, fifteen (15) day suspension for Officer F, and a five (5) days
suspension for Officer G.
Log/C.R. No. 311925
On March 15, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding two incidents that occurred on February 11,
2006 in the 17th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant. It was alleged that on February 11,
2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile, intimidating and
inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a threatening comment
referring to Victim A. It was later alleged that on March 24, 2006, the
accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened complainant Victim
A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the Victim B; punched
Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile manner; and by his
overall actions brought discredit upon the Department. Based upon
statements by the accused sergeant, Victims and witnesses, police
reports, photographs, medical records, and 911 calls, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for the allegations that
on February 11, 2006, the accused Sergeant behaved in a hostile,
intimidating and inflammatory manner to Victim A and made a
threatening comment referring to Victim A. Further, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that on
March 24, 2006, the accused Sergeant verbally abused and threatened
complainant Victim A; struck Victim A; kicked Victim A; shoved the
Victim B; punched Victim C; charged towards Victim D in a hostile
manner; and by his overall actions brought discredit upon the
Department. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day
suspension for the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 312890
On May 11, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards) regarding an incident that occurred on May 10, 2006 in the
24th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD)
Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; provided false information on an arrest report; failed to follow
proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after
his arrest; and improperly searched the complainant’s vehicle. It was
alleged that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly; failed to
inventory or return the complainant’s keys; provided false information
on an arrest report; and failed to follow proper procedure in that he
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. Based upon
statements by the accused officers, complainant and witnesses, and
OEMC and department records, and photographs, IPRA recommended
to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A squeezed the
complainant’s testicles; failed to inventory or return the complainant’s
keys; and provided false information on an arrest report. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A failed to
follow proper procedure in that he failed to secure complainant’s
vehicle after his arrest. Further, IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A improperly searched
the complainant’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN”
the allegations that Officer B handcuffed the complainant too tightly;
failed to inventory or return the complainant’s keys; and provided false
information on an arrest report. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegation that Officer B failed to follow proper procedure in that he
failed to secure complainant’s vehicle after his arrest. IPRA
recommended “Violation Noted” for both Officers A and B.
Log/C.R. No. 1005098
On April 22, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 21, 2007 in
the 14th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon;
failed to properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene;
failed to make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical
Response Report. Based upon a statement by the accused sergeant,
OEMC transmissions, photographs, department records, and laboratory
reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused sergeant unnecessarily discharged his weapon; failed to
properly secure his weapon; failed to remain on the scene; failed to
make proper notifications; and failed to submit a Tactical Response
Report. IPRA recommended separation for the accused sergeant
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1005376
On May 2, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 2, 2007 in the
6th District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F; kicked Victim
C several times; kicked Victim A; punched Victim A; choked Victim B;
threatened Victim A; directed profanities at Victims A through C; and
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the
accused officer, victims and witnesses, department reports, OEMC
transcripts, medical records, photographs and depositions, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegations that the
accused officer pointed his weapon at Victims A through F and
threatened Victim A. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim A; punched Victim A;
and choked Victim B. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that the accused officer kicked Victim C several times;
directed profanities at Victims A through C; and made a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1006073
On May 28, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA, f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred in the 14th District
involving two off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers
(Officers A and B), an on-duty Officer (Officer C), and an on-duty
Sergeant (Sergeant D). It was alleged that Officer A kicked Victim A on
the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his hair; struck Victim
A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and moved Victim A’s vehicle
without justification; removed and used a disposable camera from the
glove compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory
the disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; was intoxicated while off-duty; urinated in
public view; and violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance
was not provided. It was alleged that Officer B snatched Victim A’s
cellular phone from his hand, grabbed Victim A’s hand roughly and
twisted it behind him; handcuffed Victim A too tightly; searched Victim
A’s vehicle without justification; directed profanities at Victim A; and
was intoxicated while off-duty. It was alleged that Officer C failed to
conduct a thorough traffic investigation; failed to secure Victim A’s
vehicle; and directed profanities at Victim B. It was alleged that
Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to interview all the
witnesses and request an evidence technician and failed to ensure that
a thorough traffic crash investigation was conducted. Based upon
statements by the accused members, victim statements, departmental
reports, witness statements, OEMC transmissions, and traffic citations,
IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A
kicked Victim A on the thigh and groin area; grabbed Victim A by his
hair; struck Victim A’s head/face against a vehicle; searched and
moved Victim A’s vehicle without justification; and urinated in public
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 5 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
view. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer A removed and used a disposable camera from the glove
compartment of Victim A’s vehicle; failed to return or inventory the
disposable camera belonging to Victim A; directed profanities and
racial slurs at Victim A; and was intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A violated state traffic law in that proof of insurance was not
provided. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Officer B snatched Victim A’s cellular phone from his hand, grabbed
Victim A’s hand roughly and twisted it behind him; and handcuffed
Victim A too tightly. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer B directed profanities at Victim A and was
intoxicated while off-duty. IPRA recommended a finding of
“UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer B searched Victim A’s
vehicle without justification. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation that Officer C directed profanities at Victim B. IPRA
recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer C failed
to conduct a thorough traffic investigation. IPRA recommended a
finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer C failed to
secure Victim A’s vehicle. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Sergeant D was inattentive to duty in that he failed to
interview all the witnesses and request an evidence technician and
failed to ensure that a thorough traffic crash investigation was
conducted. IPRA recommended separation for Officer A from the
department, a thirty (30) day suspension for Officer B, a five
(5) day suspension for Officer C, and a ten (10) day suspension
for Sergeant D.
Log/C.R. No. 1010031
On October 11, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on September 13, 2007 in the 8th District. It was alleged that
an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer struck
complainant in the face; directed profanities at complainant; failed to
submit a Tactical Response Report; failed to ensure complainant
received medical attention; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA
and/or at trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was
indicted; and brought discredit upon the department when he was
arrested. Based on statements from the accused officer, complainant
and witnesses, court reports and transcripts, department records,
medical records, and photographs, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
the allegations that the accused officer struck complainant in the face;
directed profanities at complainant; failed to submit a Tactical
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 6 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
Response Report; gave false statements to the DEA, IPRA and/or at
trial; brought discredit upon the department when he was indicted;
and brought discredit upon the department when he was arrested.
IPRA recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation
that the accused officer failed to ensure complainant received medical
attention. IPRA recommended separation for the accused officer
from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1011021
On November 19, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on November 19, 2007 in the 11th District involving two onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B) and
two Detention Aides (Detention Aide C and D). It was alleged Officer
A, Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D violated
department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines for
arrestee screening for Victim. Based on statements from the accused
members and witnesses, department, medical and official records,
drug test and OEMC reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A violated department orders
when he failed to follow the guidelines for arrestee screening for
Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the
allegation that the Officer B, Detention Aide C, and Detention Aide D
violated department orders when they failed to follow the guidelines
for arrestee screening for Victim. IPRA recommended a three (3) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014252
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 17, 2008 in Oak Lawn, Illinois involving an offduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance; was
detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was determined
that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while intoxicated;
and was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated. It was alleged
that between approximately December 2007 and February 2008, that
the accused officer harassed complainant by repeatedly following her.
It was alleged that between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011,
the accused officer gave false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn
Police Department. Based on statements from the accused officer and
witnesses, CPD and Oak Park Police Department reports, and drug
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 7 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
tests, IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer harassed complainant by following her to a business
establishment and keeping her whereabouts under surveillance on
February 17, 2008; and harassed complainant by repeatedly following
her between approximately December 2007 and February 2008. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer
was detained by the Oak Lawn Police Department where it was
determined that he was intoxicated; operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated; was in possession of a firearm while intoxicated; and gave
false statements to IPRA and the Oak Lawn Police Department
between February 17, 2008 and March 17, 2011. IPRA recommended
a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1015651
On April 10, 2008 a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 10, 2008, involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Members, Officer (Officer A) and Detective (Detective B). It was
alleged that Officer A punched Detective B in the face; shoved
Detective B; and by his overall actions brought discredit on the
department. It was alleged that Detective B punched Officer A about
his body; verbally abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive
comment directed at Officer A regarding people with disabilities. Based
on statements from the accused members and witnesses, department
and medical reports, and photographs, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A punched Detective B in the
face and by his overall actions brought discredit on the department.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer A
shoved Detective B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Detective B punched Officer A about his body; verbally
abused Officer A; and made a verbally abusive comment directed at
Officer A regarding people with disabilities. IPRA recommended a five
(5) day suspension for Officer A. Officer A retired prior to the
completion of IPRA’s investigation.
Log/C.R. No. 1020690
On October 10, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 10, 2008 in the 4th District. It was alleged that an
off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer physically abused
the Victim; was arrested for domestic battery; pushed the Victim;
grabbed and/or choked the Victim; struck the Victim about her face
and body; and gave a false statement to IPRA. Based on statements
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 8 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
from the accused officer and Victim, department reports, OEMC
transcriptions and reports, medical records, photographs, court
records, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that the
accused officer physically abused the Victim; was arrested for
domestic battery; pushed the Victim; grabbed and/or choked the
Victim; struck the Victim about her face and body; and gave a false
statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation for the accused
officer from the department.
Log/C.R. No. 1021122
On October 25, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on October 25, 2008 in the 4th District involving three onduty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A, B and C). It
was alleged that an Officer A was inattentive to duty in that he failed
to secure a shotgun; and was inattentive to duty in that he
accidentally discharged a shotgun. It was alleged that an Officer B was
inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a shotgun. It was alleged
that an Officer C was inattentive to duty in that he failed to secure a
shotgun. Based on a mediation, Officers A, B, and C agreed to accept
IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a written
reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1023369
On January 26, 2009, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
took place in the 5th District Station involving six on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A through F), an on-duty
Captain (Captain G), an on-duty Lieutenant (Lieutenant H), two onduty Sergeants (Sergeants I and J), and on-duty Detention Aide. It
was alleged that Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that
the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer
A failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Lieutenant H failed to perform
his duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
policy. It was alleged that Sergeant I failed to perform his duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and failed as a
supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with department
policy. It was alleged that Officer B failed to perform her duty to
ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged
that Officer C failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical
needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that the Detention Aide
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 9 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. It was alleged that Sergeant J failed to perform his
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met and
failed as a supervisor, to ensure his subordinate staff complied with
department policy. It was alleged that Officer D failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was
alleged that Officer E failed to perform her duty to ensure that the
medical needs of an arrestee were met. It was alleged that Officer F
failed to perform her duty to ensure that the medical needs of an
arrestee were met. Based upon statements by the accused members,
departmental records, medical records, and photographs, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Captain G failed to perform his duty to ensure that the medical needs
of an arrestee were met. IPRA recommended a finding of
“EXONERATED” for the allegation that Officer A failed to perform her
duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee were met. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that both Officers B
through F, Lieutenant H, Sergeants I and J, and Detention Aide failed
to perform their duty to ensure that the medical needs of an arrestee
were met. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations
that both Lieutenant H and Sergeants I and J failed as a supervisor, to
ensure that their subordinate staff complied with department policy.
IPRA recommended a three (3) day suspension for Lieutenant H,
a one (1) day suspension for Sergeants I and J, a two (2) day
suspension for Officers B through F, and a written reprimand for
the accused Detention Aide.
Log/C.R. No. 1024565
On March 10, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 10, 2009 in the 5th District. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Sergeant had an expired FOID card;
discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s policy on
Deadly Force; impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering
with evidence; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD. Based on
statements from the accused sergeant and witnesses, department
reports, photographs, and OEMC recordings, IPRA recommended to
“SUSTAIN” the allegations that the accused officer had an expired
FOID card; discharged her weapon in violation of the department’s
policy on Deadly Force; and gave false statements to IPRA and CPD.
IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegation that the
accused officer impeded the subsequent investigation by tampering

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 10 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
with evidence. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for
the accused sergeant.
Log/C.R. No. 1025475
On April 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on
April 11, 2009, in the 18th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Sergeant (Sergeant A) and two on-duty CPD
Officers (Officer B and Victim Officer C). It was alleged that Sergeant A
made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B; made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. It was alleged that Officer
B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false
statement to IPRA. It was alleged that Victim Officer C failed to report
a fellow member’s misconduct. Based upon statements by the accused
officers, victims and witnesses, and department records, IPRA
recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” the allegation that Sergeant
A made derogatory remarks about Victim Officer E in the presence of
Officer B. IPRA recommended to “NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that
Sergeant A made a racial remark about Victim Officer C and Victim
Officer D in the presence of Officer B; and made a racial remark about
Victim Officer E in the presence of Officer B. IPRA recommended a
finding of “SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer B failed to
report a fellow member’s misconduct and provided a false statement
to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED” for the
allegations that Victim Officer C failed to report a fellow member’s
misconduct. IPRA recommended a five (5) day suspension for
Sergeant A and Officer B and a written reprimand for Victim
Officer C.
Log/C.R. No. 1026439
On May 16, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that took place
on May 15, 2009 in the 5th District involving two off-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A pushed complainant and punched complainant. It was
alleged that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s misconduct.
Based upon statements by the accused officers, the Victim and
witnesses, and photographs, IPRA recommended a finding of
“SUSTAINED” for the allegations that Officer A pushed the Victim and
punched the Victim. IPRA recommended a finding of “SUSTAINED”
for the allegation that Officer B failed to report a fellow member’s
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 11 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
misconduct. IPRA recommended a seven (7) day suspension for
Officer A and a “Violation Noted” for Officer B.
Log/C.R. No. 1027271
On July 13, 2009, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
July 13, 2009 in the 8th District involving an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the Officer was
intoxicated and intentionally discharged his weapon. Based on a
mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of
“SUSTAINED” for all allegations and a thirty (30) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1042917
On January 23, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on January 23, 2011 in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. It was
alleged that an off-duty officer pushed Victim, which resulted in his
arrest for Domestic Battery; damaged property belonging to Victim,
which resulted in his arrest for Criminal Damage to Property; and was
intoxicated while off-duty. Based on a mediation, the accused officer
agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a two (2) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1043460
On February 20, 2011, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that
occurred on February 19, 2011 in the 3rd District involving two on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officer A and B). It was
alleged that Officer A accidentally discharged his weapon while
attempting to holster his weapon; failed to immediately notify OEMC
that he discharged his weapon; and dragged/pulled Victim A down the
stairs. It was alleged that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s head;
stepped on Victim B’s stomach; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and
verbally abused Victim B. Based on statements from Officer B, a Victim
and witnesses, department and OEMC reports, IPRA recommended to
“NOT SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer B put a gun to Victim B’s
head; stepped on Victim B’s neck; and verbally abused Victim B. IPRA
recommended a finding of “EXONERATED” for the allegation that
Officer B stepped on Victim B’s stomach. Based on a mediation, Officer
A agreed to accept IPRA’s finding of “SUSTAINED” for all allegations
and a one (1) day suspension.
Log/C.R. No. 1044302
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 12 of 13

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
March 2012
On March 27, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
March 27, 2011 in the 11th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that he accidentally discharged his weapon.
Based on a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s
finding of “SUSTAINED” and a written reprimand.
Log/C.R. No. 1045517
On May 19, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
May 19, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.
Log/C.R. No. 1045833
On June 2, 2011, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
June 2, 2011, in the 13th District involving an on-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) Officer. It was alleged that the accused officer was
inattentive to duty in that she accidentally discharged her taser. Based
upon a mediation, the accused officer agreed to accept IPRA’s finding
of “SUSTAINED” and a “Violation Noted”.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 13 of 13

