Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JANUARY 2012
Log/C.R. No. 1017419
On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that
started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B).
It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit
upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and
provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B
failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative
to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed
to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the
accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions,
photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically
maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed
his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall
actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in
conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall
actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after
the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon
the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint
Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the
Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to
initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to
obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of
allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided
a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the
department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for
Sergeant B.
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 1 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JANUARY 2012
Log/C.R. No. 312270
On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in
the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police
Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical
altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a
false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused
member,
complainant
and
witnesses,
photographs,
OEMC
transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while
impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a
false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day
suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 312979
On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional
Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in
the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department
(CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one
on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A
engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant;
engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was
intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service
weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to
duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to
complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct
impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and
brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that
Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding
allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or
directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for
Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report
to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts
to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. Based upon statements by the accused members,
complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA
recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that
Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 2 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JANUARY 2012
and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified
physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty;
and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to
achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the
department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that
Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a
fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to
conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A
was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she
failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after
releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose
overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy
and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA
recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven
(7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day
suspension for Lieutenant C.
Log/C.R. No. 1035477
On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent
Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on
April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and
mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by
the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the
allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused
officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1014256
On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that
occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12,
2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty
Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly;
grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp;
placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim;
grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck
the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her
nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused
and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records,
Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 3 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases
JANUARY 2012
photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT
SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim
repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the
victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot
the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her
back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended
to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on
her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five
(25) day suspension for the accused officer.
Log/C.R. No. 1002752
On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the
Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of
Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on
January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago
Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged
that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the
body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally
threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s
cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C;
threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job
without authorization; and left her assigned district without
authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without
authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based
upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of
the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA
recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that
Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of
“NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B
about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and
verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked
Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA
recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a
threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her
assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district
without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN”
allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without
authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension
for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.

Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY

Page 4 of 4

Abstracts of Sustained Cases JANUARY 2012 Log/C.R. No. 1017419 On June 16, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding multiple incidents that started on June 2008 involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A) and one on-duty CPD Sergeant (Sergeant B). It was alleged that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint Register investigation; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home; and provided false statements to IPRA. It was alleged that Sergeant B failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided a false statements to IPRA. Based upon statements made by the accused members, complainant and witnesses, OEMC transmissions, photographs and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A verbally abused complainant; physically maltreated complainant; threatened to shoot complainant; displayed his weapon without justification; engaged in conduct by his overall actions which brought discredit upon the Department; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department by his overall actions when he encountered the complainant by chance a month after the initial incident; engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department when he had contact with a witness to a Complaint Register investigation; and provided false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A engaged in conduct which brought discredit upon the Department when he drove past a witness’s home. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Sergeant B failed to initiate a complete and comprehensive investigation relative to the allegations of misconduct against a Department member; failed to obtain a Complaint Register number after bring made aware of allegations of misconduct against a Department member; and provided a false statements to IPRA. IPRA recommended separation from the department for Officer A and a thirty (30) day suspension for Sergeant B. Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY  Page 1 of 4  Abstracts of Sustained Cases JANUARY 2012 Log/C.R. No. 312270 On April 12, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on April 12, 2006 in the 24th District. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation; was in possession of a firearm while impaired; and made a false statement to IPRA. Based upon statements by the accused member, complainant and witnesses, photographs, OEMC transmissions, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer possessed a firearm while impaired. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that the officer engaged in an unjustified physical altercation and made a false statement to IPRA. IPRA recommended a thirty (30) day suspension for the accused officer. Log/C.R. No. 312979 On May 16, 2006, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on May 16, 2006 in the 22nd District involving one off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officer (Officer A), one on-duty CPD Officer (Officer B), and one on-duty CPD Lieutenant (Lieutenant C). It was alleged that Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant; engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complainant; was intoxicated while off duty; failed to properly secure his service weapon; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. It was further alleged that Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. Based upon statements by the accused members, complainant and witnesses, reports, and witness statements, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified verbal altercation with Complainant Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY  Page 2 of 4  Abstracts of Sustained Cases JANUARY 2012 and failed to properly secure his service weapon. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer A engaged in an unjustified physical altercation with Complanant; was intoxicated while off duty; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer B was inattentive to duty by failing to report misconduct by a fellow officer; failed to complete a tactical response report; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Lieutenant C failed to conduct a complete investigation regarding allegations that Officer A was intoxicated off-duty; violated an order or directive in that she failed to obtain a Central Booking number for Complainant after releasing him without charges; gave a false report to IPRA; and whose overall conduct impeded the department’s efforts to achieve its policy and goals and brought discredit upon the department. IPRA recommended a ten (10) day suspension for Officer A, a seven (7) day suspension for Officer B, and a thirty (30) day suspension for Lieutenant C. Log/C.R. No. 1035477 On April 16, 2010, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA), regarding an incident that occurred on April 16, 2010 in the 3rd District. It was alleged that an on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer was inattentive to duty and mishandled her Taser causing it to deploy. Based upon a statement by the accused and reports, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation. IPRA recommended a “violation noted” for the accused officer. Log/C.R. No. 1014256 On February 18, 2008, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA) regarding an incident that occurred on February 16, 2008 in the 4th District and on October 12, 2003 on an unspecified location. It was alleged that an off-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) officer pushed the victim repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun; and punched the victim on her nose on a previous occasion. Based upon statements by the accused and victim, reports, OEMC transcriptions, medical records, Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY  Page 3 of 4  Abstracts of Sustained Cases JANUARY 2012 photographs and records, IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that the officer pushed the victim repeatedly; grabbed/pulled the victim’s hair; pulled hair from the victim’s scalp; placed his gun to the victim’s head; threatened to shoot the victim; grabbed the victim and applied his body weight on her back; struck the victim’s right hand with his gun. IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegation that Officer and punched the victim on her nose on a previous occasion. IPRA recommended a twenty-five (25) day suspension for the accused officer. Log/C.R. No. 1002752 On January 16, 2007, a complaint was registered with the Independent Police Review Authority (IPRA f/k/a the Office of Professional Standards), regarding an incident that occurred on January 16, 2007 in the 4th District involving two on-duty Chicago Police Department (CPD) Officers (Officers A and B). It was alleged that Officer A physically abused Victim A; struck Victim B about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally threatened Victim B; left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C; threw flower plants and vases at Victim B; left her assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district without authorization. It was alleged that Officer B left his assigned job without authorization and left his assigned district without authorization. Based upon statements by the accused members, one of the victims, one of the witnesses, a voice recording, 911 recordings, and reports, IPRA recommended a finding of “UNFOUNDED” for the allegation that Officer A physically abused Victim A. IPRA recommended a finding of “NOT SUSTAINED” for allegations that Officer A struck Victim B about the body; placed her (Officer A) hand on her (Officer A) gun and verbally threatened Victim B; pushed Victim C to the floor; kicked Victim C; and threw flower plants and vases at Victim B. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” the allegations that Officer A left a threatening voice message on Victim B’s cellular telephone; left her assigned job without authorization; and left her assigned district without authorization. Further, IPRA recommended to “SUSTAIN” allegations that Officer B left his assigned job and district without authorization. IPRA recommended a twenty (20) day suspension for Officer A and a five (5) day suspension for Officer B.  Created by INDEPENDENT POLICE REVIEW AUTHORITY  Page 4 of 4  